+++
title = "On Obsession"
slug = "on-obsession"
published = 2014-08-10T20:55:00.002000-07:00
author = "Peddler"
tags = [ "drabble",]
+++
She tried to picture the quiet of her meditation hall, timeless, without
a beat, without a count, with only the steady progression of forms, the
position and reposition of the body, every action of muscle
corresponding to an action of breath. One began with palms flat against
each other, fingers facing up, held against the sternum, pressing into
the bone like a knife-edge lightly held in place; knees and back held
straight, unmoving but relaxed, still but not rigid; feet together,
facing forward, eyes as well. Ekam.  
  
  
“It's next stop.” Spin's voice rang low and clear in her ears, despite
the muting effect of the dull murmur that enveloped the immediate
environment like a blanket. Around her, the dank smell of commuter
traffic filled her nose, bearing its own personal stamp along with all
the typical elements: in addition to the sweat and the smell of
once-fresh cotton and linen and nylon were the faint whiffs of tired,
once-strong spices, fried meat and vegetables, oil and horseradish and
chili. The remnants of lunch. The shifting crowd began to rearrange
itself with practiced steps, as some spilled out of the overfull
container of bodies and some forced their way in. The person on her
right took seven steps, minor shuffling rearrangements of position.
Seven people brushed against her as they moved around. It looked like
rain. She could see people exiting putting up umbrellas and hoods,
quickening their pace. Inside the train car as well, hoods went up in
anticipation of disembarking. She counted seven in her field of
vision.  
  
  
She took a deep breath as the train doors closed. Seven seconds after
the third person disembarked. Or seven and a half. Which meant that it
was seven seconds since the interval between persons three and four.
Seven seconds since three and a half?  
  
  
The palms were then opened, facing downward as the arms extended in
front of her, held to continue the line of the arm; and then the arms
were raised, slowly, above her head, until they continued the line of
the torso; and then taken back further as, without a pause, the torso
tilted back from the hips to arc the body into a single line of action,
curved like an unstrung bow, as her chest filled with air to curve it
further. Dve.  
  
  
The train's movement was gliding and untextured, more like flying than
land travel in its smooth feel. The arms of the passengers around her
were nevertheless stretched upwards to hold onto the provided handles, a
matter of comfort or habit more than any real need, she supposed. The
odd forest of human limbs above her head crisscrossed and broke up the
windows into irregular panes, in her view. One window to her left was
split into seven by the limbs blocking it.  
  
  
She turned her head to find Eane watching her, dark eyes flatly
assessing through wispy black bangs, and took another deep breath, this
time slow and even enough not to be obvious.  
  
  
The torso and then the arms were then unwound from their position, the
bow defying its own laws of tension as it straightened with ease; and
the arms were swung forward deliberately, looking as though they
extended in length when the back curved to hang them farther down, until
the forehead met the unbent knees and the palms were flat against the
ground next to her feet, the whole body folded in two, locked to itself
like the edges of a silk fan, air released from her chest and stomach in
a steady flow to note the compression and mark the change. Trini.  
  
  
Telephone poles whipped by; she flicked her eyes to the window again
quickly, and counted seven before she turned away. She pinched the
bridge of her nose, head falling forward for a second. She lifted it
immediately when she saw three and a half pairs of shoes in her visible
range, and looked back at Eane, willing herself to calmness.  
  
  
The hips dropped and the right leg extended far back, so that the left
knee bent to tuck into the armpit neatly. The head was lifted to look
up, neck arching to create the curve that extended through to her right
foot. Again a breath was taken in. Chatvari.  
  
  
“We're here.” Spin's voice was brisk now, and she automatically moved to
follow its directive, following the dance steps neatly to exit the
monorail car. The station was above ground, the sky ominous but rain
still holding off.  
  
  
The left leg was taken back to rest parallel to the right, ramrod
straight, and using the soles of the feet as a fulcrum, the entire body
was turned on the hinge of the hips so that the arms and torso aligned
once more and the hips, held in the air, resembled the peak of a
mountain. Air was deliberately exhaled, downwards to mark the support
drawn. Pancha.  
  
  
Fourteen people were wearing yellow on the platform. Seven heads stood
slightly taller than the rest. Seven turnstiles stood in a row, gleaming
silver. Stainless steel, minimum ten point five percent chromium. Seven
times fifteen, a hundred and five. Above her head were thirty-two
spanners holding up the roof. Sixteen times two. Sixteen minus two was
fourteen. Numbly she felt a hand pull her through the station, out to an
exit, onto the sidewalk where cars whizzed by. Twelve cars passed the
spot she stood at for three seconds before she was propelled further
along. Twelve divided by three was four. Three plus four was seven. Two
of the cars had been red. Twelve plus two was fourteen. Hysterical
bubbles of laughter rose to her throat, but her mouth was paralyzed and
wouldn't open. Instead, the low sound began coming from her throat,
through her nose, nearly inaudible, but deep and rolling, arrhythmic in
its delirium.  
  
  
The knees were collapsed onto the floor,the body folded onto the lower
legs, arms outstretched still, forehead to the ground, a position of
total supplication, breath indrawn. Sata.  
  
  
Six.  
  
  
She began to shake.
