+++
title = "Prologue"
slug = "prologue"
published = 2014-08-10T20:29:00.002000-07:00
author = "Peddler"
tags = [ "water body",]
+++
<span style="font-size: small;"><span style="font-family: inherit;">It
was a piece of emptiness that we all drove around - the place where
nothing could be built, nothing could be planted, nothing could *happen*
that humans could have a hand in. Satellite imaging gave us all we
really knew about the space that we had to skirt, every single day, just
to make it to where we needed to be; that was that it was overgrown, and
that the foliage was darker than that immediately surrounding. Once in a
while, the image on Google Earth was refreshed, and we caught a vague
glimpse of reflected sky piecemealed in brown water. It would stay there
for a month or more, until they took a new picture from up
high.</span></span>  
<span style="font-size: small;"><span style="font-family: inherit;">The
first time I'd seen that happen, I'd print-screened, not knowing how
else to save the image at the time. Silly, really, the icon was right
there on the toolbar...but I'd just started using the application at the
time, and I'd been irrationally panicked, thinking I'd lose
it.</span></span>  
<span style="font-size: small;"><span style="font-family: inherit;">We
were told a great deal more about the place. Crescent Lake wasn't much
of a lake anymore; it had eutrophicated some fifty years ago, and was
something akin to marshland now. It was more expensive to drain than
most marshland, because it had a connection to the aquifer that sat
under the town - it took special equipment to keep from polluting it
with half a century's worth of nitrogen buildup and chemical leaching.
Too expensive a project if the mayor's Clean and Green running slogan
were to be kept free from any damaging irony next
election.</span></span>  
<span style="font-size: small;"><span style="font-family: inherit;">We
were also told, on occasion, about young idiots who wandered into the
expanse, and wasted taxpayer money on search parties that had started to
become monotonous for the rest of us to hear about. Local news seemed to
get a great deal of play out of stories that always turned out the same.
Each time it happened, yet more flyers went out to paper the school
walls, talks were given, and vigils were held. The red-eyed parents
could be glimpsed, seated in the front row of the auditorium as people
for whom photo opportunities were a part of life proselytized their
cause under cover of expressing a community's grief. Rules were
tightened, curfews were discussed, talking heads bobbled at each other
about the deeper political meaning of everybody's opinion's and
decisions were made or not made in closed rooms nobody knew much about.
Nothing really happened. Life went on. The hole in reality fell out of
the spotlight, and was not discussed. It wasn't something people wanted
to dwell on.</span></span>  
<span style="font-size: small;"><span style="font-family: inherit;">To
my life, it was essentially background noise; for all that I was one of
those that counted and saw the missing faces. I woke up on time,
exercised, ate a balanced breakfast, packed a balanced lunch, went to
work and came back. I spent absurd amounts of time cooking dinner, ate
it as I reviewed tomorrow's notes a final time, and went to bed reading,
at ten thirty and no later.</span></span>  
<span style="font-size: small;"><span style="font-family: inherit;">The
faces, the details, they faded into the background. I could remember any
of it if I thought about it, but where was the need to?</span></span>  
<span style="font-size: small;"><span style="font-family: inherit;">In
retrospect, it looks a great deal like I was begging for something to go
wrong.</span></span>
