+++
title = "Red"
slug = "red"
published = 2014-08-10T20:10:00.001000-07:00
author = "Peddler"
tags = [ "Interregnum",]
+++
Sensation began at my ears, and pulsed through
my head like successive underwater explosions; blurred echoes rippled to
the edges of my skull, and stirred me from consuming stupor. I'd heard
somewhere that, once upon a time, underwater cannons were how they
recovered a drowned body – the pulse shook it loose.

I became aware of my head in its entirety
through the disturbance that consumed it, beginning at the ears and
ricocheting in unpredictable ways. For a moment, nothing else
existed.

  

The sound solidified and sharpened until it
hurt to hear. I tried to turn away, and must have made a sound. The
clapping stopped. 

It didn't seem to matter. My head was still
pounding to the rhythm of the claps, between my ears and behind my eyes.
I whimpered again, and didn't care that I was doing it.

  

Feeling returned to my face, my neck, but no
further. It wasn't pleasant, but it would be much worse in a few hours.
I could feel the telltale effects of painkillers in my system – the
disorientation, the slow, ambiguous return of sensation. I tried not to
tense up, paid attention to each bit of returning feeling to make sure I
wasn't tensing the muscle. It was slow, which meant they must have used
the good stuff. That was to be expected, for all that our stock was
dwindling, given the circumstances.

  

It was both too silent and not silent enough.
The background noise was faint but constant, but near me was quiet. That
was the first and only warning sign.

  

I opened my eyes to red.
