+++
title = "Preludes"
slug = "preludes"
published = 2014-08-10T20:14:00.002000-07:00
author = "Peddler"
tags = [ "horror story",]
+++
The problem with the world today is a lack of destruction.

I say this despite knowing that most will find the notion perfectly
counterintuitive – and that's the problem: we have come to a place, in
our collective psyche, where we find the necessity of destruction
counterintuitive. This is far from a natural or healthy state.

Humans aren't born with respect for only creative or preservative
processes; we're born without the barriers that tell us not to pull
things down, to tear them apart, to kill them or crush them or stomp on
them. They are inverse twins, creation and destruction, that build
cycles that hold eternal fascination and infinite beauty for our minds;
it is a beauty we learn before we are old enough or slow enough to be
properly taught anything. You see it in children: blocks are used to
create the most elaborate, storied constructions, as tall as their
makers, which are really only built so they can be torn down again –
fists are punched through their centres, cornerstones are pulled away,
and small palms are clapped in glee as the castle comes crashing to the
ground. (“Building blocks.”) The pattern is ubiquitous to all childhood:
Sand castles slaved over for hours get kicked up when the tides come in.
Girls' pigtails get pulled. Low tables get turned over. Milk gets
spilled. Knees and hands are torn up in efforts to run as fast as legs
can carry you. Childhood, after all, is the passionate pursuit of
entropy, through any and all means. Nothing in childhood is ever
repeated. Nothing acquires that dull, comfortable sheen of sameness to
other things that characterises our every attitude towards the world as
adults. The best agents of entropy are creation and destruction, and we
find their dichotomy everywhere in the exercise of children's agency.

The structures we are taught to think in, on the other hand, rely on
sameness. We reduce all thinking to the manipulation of it, kill the
openness of our minds with grey walls of abstraction to fence all our
experiences; we build entire cities of invariant boxes that claim,
laughably, to represent what they contain. We give them the
contemptible, paradoxical moniker of 'systems of thought'; and posit
with desperate conviction their sufficiency for all human activity; and
invent new ones to hide behind whenever the whisper of truth reveals to
us the converse. Language. Logic. Science. Politics.

Inexorably, inevitably, piece by required piece, we become so reliant on
these grey walls and the mountainous, intractable structures they've
been assembled into, that we lose sense of what they are and what we
are. Like fools, we call their mess, their senseless profusion, the same
names we had for the glorious, ephemeral beauties of things we last
properly saw too long ago to remember; equality becomes our stand-in for
diversity, war becomes our stand-in for battle, monument becomes our
stand-in for art. We mistake complexity, and scale beyond comprehension,
for entropy; and proceed to spend our life adding to it in some effort
to replicate the effortless feeling of childhood, when everything was
madness, madness that words couldn't pin down and that no one else could
ever see.

But we are, against our best efforts, still human, and our inherences
don't change; and we still love what we learned to love before we were
taught anything, to tear things down. It is impossible in the world we
created, and unthinkable to tear the world down. So we compartmentalize
and rationalize the love away, trying to lose it in structure so that we
don't have to look at it straight. We call it the cost of change, we
call it a perverse urge, we call it rage, we call it stress, we call it
progress. We call it genius or psychosis in others so we can pretend not
to understand. We try to medicate it away. We try to find acceptable
targets for it, and acceptable ways to indulge it. We try to relegate it
to other places a thousand miles distant, miles measured over oceans and
mountains and lines on maps, so we can tut at it like pigeons and
pretend to be powerless about its effects.

There are those of us who enjoy watching this structure and these people
as they tick forward by degrees into their own destruction; against
odds, we remember and face our love of falls, of breaks, of violence. We
sit at the edge of the stage, eating popcorn as if we were audience, and
every so often we get up to go among the main players and walk around,
and stroke people's backs to make them shiver, or claw at their cheeks
from behind, and say, “Boo!” so that they jump out of place or forget
their lines. We cackle madly as some corner of the play derails, and the
chances for the production's success grow yet worse.

This is one such stage corner. Some would call it a horror story.
